We can consider variables in that research project as something that was constructed from the particular elements and qualities of the research design.
Thus we will look at the different parts of variable names to provide a complete understanding of variables.

1) The first element of variable name is always (except for angle, type of activity and identifier of subject) "t" or "f". "t" denotes that a variable belongs to the time domain. "f" denotes that a variable belongs to the frequency domain.
2) The second element is usually a "Body" or "Gravity". Well ... honestly, I don't know what authors of original research meant, probably that further computations were made in body or gravity domain. So let's put it that way: "Body" stands for body and "Gravity" stands for gravity :)
3) The third element spells out the instrument which data was used to compute values. There were two instruments: accelerometer and gyroscope. 
4) The fourth element may or may not be included in the names of variables. It takes two values - "jerk" that means jerk signals and "magnitude" that mean the magnitude of signals of the used instrument.
Those above are elements that constitute a basic variable. Almost any basic variable is just a combination of those parts.
5) This part is separated by a hyphen. It represents the different operations that were made on value of the basic variable. For example "tBodyGyroscopeMagnitude-mean" means that we take a mean of "tBodyGyroscopeMagnitude" and that value will be in a data frame. Thes part may take next values:
mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation
mad(): Median absolute deviation 
max(): Largest value in array
min(): Smallest value in array
sma(): Signal magnitude area
energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
iqr(): Interquartile range 
entropy(): Signal entropy
arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4
correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
6) The sixth part also separated by a hyphen and represents the axis for which computations were made. (Also in that part we can find numbers, but again, I don't understand what they stands for :)
7) Special case: angle() which stands for an angle between two vectors.

So, by combining the meaning of parts above you can cath the meaning of whole variable! (Well, it works :)

Also there is variable called "Type of activity" which values are pretty self-explanatory. 
Values of a variable called "ID of subject" stands for the identifier of subjects and takes values from 1 to 30. 
